PKI: Change sign-intermediate to truncate notAfter by default (behavior change) (#26796)
hashicorp/vault: website/content/docs/upgrading/upgrade-to-1.17.x.mdx

---
layout: docs
page_title: Upgrade to Vault 1.17.x - Guides
description: |-
  Deprecations, important or breaking changes, and remediation recommendations
  for anyone upgrading to 1.17.x from Vault 1.16.x.
---

# Overview

The Vault 1.17.x upgrade guide contains information on deprecations, important
or breaking changes, and remediation recommendations for anyone upgrading from
Vault 1.16. **Please read carefully**.

## Important changes

### PKI sign-intermediate now truncates notAfter field to signing issuer

> Prior to 1.17.x the sign-intermediate API would permit a calculated notAfter field to go beyond
> the signing issuer's notAfter. This would lead to a CA chain that would not validate properly. As
> of 1.17.x the default behavior has changed to truncate the intermediary's notAfter value to
> the signing issuer's notAfter if calculated to be greater.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Prior to 1.17.x, Vault allowed the calculated sign-intermediate `notAfter` field
to go beyond the signing issuer `notAfter` field. The extended value lead to a
CA chain that would not validate properly. As of 1.17.x, Vault truncates the
intermediary `notAfter` value to the signing issuer `notAfter` if the calculated
field is greater.
```

Style correction: write in active voice

#### How to opt out

> A new flag has been introduced on the sign-intermediate API `enforce_leaf_not_after_behavior`. Setting
> this flag to true, the sign-intermediate API will use the signing issuer's configured
> `leaf_not_after_behavior` value to control the behavior. Configuring the issuer to a value of `permit`
> will along with setting the `enforce_leaf_not_after_behavior` to true will restore the legacy behavior.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can use the new `enforce_leaf_not_after_behavior` flag on the
sign-intermediate API along with the `leaf_not_after_behavior` flag for the
signing issuer to opt out of the truncating behavior.

When you set `enforce_leaf_not_after_behavior` to true, the sign-intermediate
API uses the `leaf_not_after_behavior` value configured for the signing issuer
to control truncation the behavior. Setting the issuer `leaf_not_after_behavior`
field to `permit` and `enforce_leaf_not_after_behavior` to true restores the
legacy behavior.
```

Style correction: write in active voice
